Location, Identity, and Routing

(XXX update to summarize routing basics)


Basic questions in any decentralized system:

	How do you identify someone you want to communicate with?

	How do you locate them in order to get a message to them?

In this lecture we will explore some widely-used, but very imperfect,
	answers to these questions.
You will need to know these answers in order to understand
	how the Internet works today and how to deal with it.


UseNet/UUCP: you're identified by your location.
	Identity represented by a short, administratively unique string
		(e.g., 'decvax').
	Location represented by a bang path - a source route to find you.

	To send a message, just follow the yellow brick road.

	Advantages:
		easy to use to send a response to a message you received
			(just follows the same path back)
		provides some level of accountability
			if origin won't behave, can pressure its upstream nodes

	Disadvantages:
		locator/identifier not globally useful: depends on perspective
		changes whenever node location or in-between topology changes
		bang path might not represent best/most efficient path

Major conceptual advance: separate identities from locators,
	map identities to locators.

	identity: supposed to stay the same wherever you move.
	locator: contains structure useful for finding you.

Today's Internet: you're identified by a DNS name, located by an IP address.
	provides a level of indirection

	how IP routing works - brief overview
		IP address: 32 bits
		basic shortest-path routing
		hierarchical CIDR aggregation

		IPv6: same as IP(v4), only 128-bit addresses

	how DNS works
		Name-to-address records
		DNS servers
		root servers
			currently 13 logical root servers
			http://root-servers.org/
		local caching servers

	In reality, both DNS names and IP addresses are fungible
		DNS load balancing
		Anycast IP

	That's good and bad
		Good: can decentralize any IP address, any DNS name
		Bad: can lead to vulnerabilities
			DNS hijacking
				by ISPs along path
				by trojans in end host
				by third-parties who can guess DNS responses
			IP prefix hijacking
				Pakistan hijacks YouTube (2008)

Further reading:
	CIDR RFC
	DNS
	Location/Identity papers, RFCs?

